Copyright (C) 1993 Commodore Electronics Ltd. The following information may
only be reproduced and used in accordance with the requirements and limitations
set forth below. This information may be used by licensees of Amiga DOS in
combination with their lawful use of licensed copies of Amiga DOS. Reproduction 
of this information is limited to that reasonably required for the use of Amiga
DOS in accordance with such license. All reproduction of this information, in whole or in
part, must retain this copyright notice as well as the warranty disclaimers
and limitation of liability as set forth below. All Other Rights are 
Reserved.

Commodore makes no warranties or representations, either express, or implied,
with respect to the information set forth herein, which information is being
supplied on an "AS IS" basis, expressly subject to change without notice.
The entire risk as to the use of this information is assumed by the user.
IN NO EVENT WILL COMMODORE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY CLAIM ARISING OUT OF THE
INFORMATION PRESENTED HEREIN, EVEN IF IT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITIES OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATION
OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY.
 

SetPatch (c) Copyright 1990-1992, Commodore-Amiga, Inc. All Rights Reserved.


SetPatch 37.39 is designed to improve system operation of the Amiga
computer with Amiga DOS 2.0. The Update_SetPatch icon or shell-script is
designed to automatically update the version of SetPatch you are using.  
If you already have an up-to-date SetPatch, Update_SetPatch will inform you
of that fact and not replace SetPatch.

The key changes this version of SetPatch will bring to your system
are:

- Exall() emulation for filesystems which do not support the V37+ Exall
  packet is much improved.

- On certain 68000-based Amigas, some software which would fail with an
  alert number of 80000003 is now made to work.

- Many older external floppy drives which might have had problems
  under 2.04 now work.


This version of SetPatch addresses the following areas:

- Setpatch opens the 68040.library and reports the fact that it did
  that.  The 68040 library will only open on systems equipped with a
  68040 CPU.

- The IDE driver in the A600 compensates for an internal cache problem
  with Conner CP2024 hard drives.

- On A3000 machines that have 68040 CPUs and are running the 37.175
  version of the ROM OS, and have SCRAM memory, page mode operation is
  turned off.

- CIA interrupt servers are moved to priority 0 if they are lower than
  priority 0.

- Patches console.device CMD_CLEAR to set up registers correctly.

- Patch to remove potential deadlock condition between console device
  and Intuition's DisplayBeep().

- Patch to properly flush buffered file handles which have never been
  read from.

- Blitter interrupts can be erroneously turned on during system 
  initialization.  SetPatch forces them off.

- The slop area for high density floppies is now correctly
  initialized.  This fixes problems when switching between high and
  low density disks on a high-density drive.

- The IAddress field of IDCMP_MOUSEMOVE and IDCMP_MOUSEBUTTONS
  IntuiMessages now has 1.3-compatible values.  This fixes some
  programs which are erroneously attempting to extract a GadgetID
  from non-gadget-related IntuiMessages.  Such programs crash
  on 68000-based Amigas with a guru number 80000003.

- The line-A exception entry can be inadvertently altered by the ROMs.
  SetPatch corrects this.

- The V37.175 ROM does not unpack the monitor data from the ROM
  correctly.  This is corrected by first checking if the monitor
  exists and returning bad mode ID return codes if it does not.

- Open() of paths more than 128 characters long now works.

- The SIGF_SINGLE signal bit is now cleared before allowing an open of
  scsi.device to proceed.  Certain versions of scsi.device fail to
  clear that signal before using it.

- Patch to fix some holes in the SharedSemaphore routines.

- Fixes some applications using certain inappropriate functions such 
  as SetRGB4() from within an interrupt.

- The 2000 microsecond waits from trackdisk are increased to 3000
  microseconds, in order to allow older A1010 drives to work under 2.0.

- The level-7 interrupt vector is pointed at an RTE instruction, for
  efficiency.




