The files in this drawer demonstrate how to use certain features of
ViNCEd, as well as the include files in this archive. They also try to
answer some frequently asked questions and provide example code how to
write CLEAN programs.


ReadWindowSize.c:

	Demonstrates how to obtain the window size in characters without
	really requiring to go down to the intuition window. This example
	source would even work in case the stdout of the program is connected
	to some kind of Amiga compatible console over a serial line. 
	Especially, all the intuition/console related problems are absend, the
	program would work in iconified windows and without disabling the AUTO
	feature of a console window.

	This program answers a FAQ in c.s.a.p., hopefully.

ReadConsoleWindow.c:
	
	Demonstrates how to obtain a pointer to the intuition window of
	a console window in a way that does not disable the iconification
	of ViNCEd. Works with ViNCEd as well as with all other console
	handlers.
	Provides useful routines you might want to use in your own
	programs. It provides, too, a way how to obtain the console unit
	(struct ConUnit) from a stream to a console handler. However,
	this is discouraged since ViNCEd windows operate independently
	from the console device. They just fill the console unit structure
	for backwards compatibility.
	(Slightly reworked to remove one bug.)

ReadPrefs.c:

	Demonstrates how to read the preferences from a window, how to
	convert the macro and button list to something more useful and
	how to print it.
	Demonstrates, too, how to work with the link libraries instead
	of the pragmas. For that, the program should be compiled with
	registerized parameters, long integers and base relative
	addressing. It should be linked with the vnc_stub.rr.base.lib
	in the "lib" directory to resolve open symbols.

TBITest.c:

	Demonstrates how to use the ToolButtonImage class boopsis, which
	are also used by ViNCEd for its iconification gadget. This example
	is provided by Massimo Tantignone (tanti@intercom.it) and part of
	the TBIClass documentation. Thanks, Massimo!

	
Thomas Richter
